# RUNNING THE APPLICATION

To run this application you must have Java installed on your machine. Once you have that all you will need to do is naviagate to the "Game-Engine" folder via the command line and run the command "make run". If there are class files and there has been a change made to any of the files you can use the command "make clean" to delete those files.

# ABOUT THE APPLICATION

This application is meant to be a game engine. It tries to implement the MVC design pattern but the controller is not there yet. The main files you will need to be concerned with is the Scene and Sprite class. The scene is the main JPanel that draws things to the screen. It contains a timeline which takes care of updating the screen image at a consistent rate. It also contains a class named CoordinateSystem which keeps track of a global coordinate system. This will be used if you want to define where something is based on that coordinate system rather than the default pixel values that you would need to use. It also contains its own timeline in case you want to define the motion of something based on a time parameter, perhaps a changing vector field or a sprites position. The sprite has all the basic things that a sprite can do but more implementation is needed. There is some keyboard listeners but they aren't fully integrated to move a player object or do anything. The subject class listens for changes and then notifies observers which register to get notified of these changes. This has been used to check when the screen changes size. Sprites can check collisions and do boundary checking. A sprite draws itself but you could also have the scene draw it if you wanted to use the global coordinate system. Work is needed to be able to create a game but the overall goal is to have a sprite in the center than can shoot and have other sprites whose motion is determined by a changing vector field move around. If they collide the game is over.